so let us write a function duplicate number which takes two
arguments the array and its size.
Let us declare an iterating variable i and initialise
it to 0. Then write while i is less than size. So first
check if the number is not present in its index
So write if array[i] not equal to i+1
here why are we writing i+1?
The array index starts from zero
But in our problem the numbers are from one to n
That is why we are checking if array[i]
not equal to i+1
If yes, we need to swap them
Otherwise we can move to the next element
So write else i++
Now we need to find the correct index of array[i]
and we need to swap the elements
So find the correct index of array[i]
That is array[i-1].
So write int index equal to array[i]-1
If value of array[i] and array[index]
are not equal, we can swap the elements.
So write if array[i] not equal to array[index]
then swap &array[i] and
&array[index].
Now if they are equal, we have found the duplicate
element. So we can simply return it. So write else
return array[i] which is the duplicate element
And that's it.
And if there are no duplicates present, just return -1
in the end.